---
title: Issue #253
layout: post
created_at: Thu July 13 2017
permalink: blog/2017-09-06-Issue-253
current: blog
author: Marie and Ines
twitter: nk42_
categories: student-posts
---

# Backend Experts: Marie & Ines - Team NK42

Rails Girls Summer of Code brought us an valuable experience while working on our project Foodsaving-backend: https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend.

_Photo of our team from first Retro (maybe we could use the upcoming photo)?_

## What we planned to do :)
Before our Rails Girls Summer of Code we did not know that working on 1 issue can take a lot of time and therefore we came up with this ambitious plan with our mentor:    
  
- create Feedback field to Food Pickup   
- make trusted users/group admins    
- create statistics for pickups that were done by users in kilograms   
- build a quiz framework   

Optional: Android App, shared food & other things

## What we have done during RGSoC 2017
We found out that our fist task: create Feedback field to Food Pickups that were done is much bigger task. We spent a lot of our time learning about: Python, Django Framework, Django REST Framework, Swagger, how to troubleshoot our Git merge conflicts and how to solve our Docker complaints.

#### We have learnt:    
1. There are no shortcuts - we have to do Django tutorial and Django REST tutorial first  
2. Not knowing how to work both in the same time on the same branch will not speed up our progress! We are going to have many merge conflicts instead and we have to solve them all. This takes many, many hours :)  
3. We know what is server, browser, database, models, migrations, HTTP requests, querysets, filters and all these fancy words around we did not know how they are connected before.   

4.
We thought: "Programming is X but in fact programming is X"

         | Programming BEFORE   | Programming AFTER
-------- | -------------------- | -----------------
Ines:    | "It is complicated!" |	"It is complicated!"    
Marie:   | "This does something but I have | 
           certain idea what it could be."  |			     
For Both:|   | 

_Photo of grumpy cat_  
e.g. this one <https://uproxx.files.wordpress.com/2014/11/wlgrumpycat.jpg?quality=100&w=650>
> "Programming is complicated", claims Ines after RGSoC             

#### We have built:   
- a new API endpoint Feedback with HTTP methods GET, POST  
- integration API tests for Feedback that ensure that the user gets the correct GET/POST output  
- validation for field ```about``` and set the field ```given_by``` as read-only
- unit model tests for model Feedback

#### We still want to do:
- add HTTP method PATCH to Feedback
- change field ```weight``` to FloatField
- add filters to our Feedback + some other limitations
- refacture

## Hackaton & Community

We attended HackDays in ImmobillienScount 11.07./13.07. and we have got very motivated with Stefan: "We can make it!"

Foodsaving founders invited us to their **Hackaton: 14.07./16.07**. We met here incredibly smart people - Tilmann Becker (@tiltec), Nick Sellen (@nicksellen) and Janina Abels (@djahnie) who put their time & energy into making the saving a food waste possible.

_Photo from Hackaton_

2 sentences about Yunity blog posts:    
<https://yunity.org/en/heartbeat/2017-08-06>
<https://blog.foodsaving.world/2017/09/01/railsgirls-fairy-tale.html>

2 senteces about Foodsaving-backend beginner guide:
<https://github.com/mddemarie/Foodsaving-Documentation/blob/master/foodsaving-backend-code-guide.md>

We should mention here that we have got Derek as our new coach on the way who helped incredibly much and made impossible possible! (@tingled) <https://github.com/tingled>

## Story about Our First Issue
Intro: sometimes things need much longer than expeced - especially in programming ….
> some more stuff >>> Link to Blogpost


## First Issue #253 in Numbers
(_we can do the number clickable: <https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/issues/253>_)

**Graphics**
1 Model.  
1 Serializer.    
1 Viewset.    
3 api endpoints.      
xxx Tests.    
xxx Lines of code.         
4000 hours of confusion (estimation based on daily log).    
100000000 Failures and Errors.
   
But at the end:    
2 happy RailsGirls.  
1 merged Pull Request. 

But our hardest part on our issue was to fix this test:
> code example

This test should return two instances of our test object and check that there are exactly 2 instances in the test database. There is alse a difference between a test database and live database what we have learnt as the time went :)

## Our Future
Our Calls for papers for Codemotion Berlin 2017 and PyCon Germany 2017 were successfully selected! Yay! And we will have this talk: "A Summer of Foodsharing – Learn How to Code in an Open Source Project" in October 2017. We are going to talk about RailsGirls community, how to get into Open Source and present our project Foodsaving.

> _we could use a web link for Codemotion and PyCon Germany here_
 
@ines will become a Product Manager and help to prioritize coding tasks. Developers will realize how useful it is to scratch some unnecessary ideas that are totally unrealistic!!!   
@marie will get an amazing job as Backend Engineer in some country she has never been to.
